draft a blob post (#361)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2020-07-30-summer-update.md

---

> title: Disappearing messages and Video chats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Disappearing Messages and Video-chats
```

author: bjoern
image: ../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg
---

Summer is there - and also a **new round of Delta Chat releases**.

We're happy that we could fix tons of bugs the last weeks,
so that the overall experience of Delta Chat will be a much more stable one.
Also we added lots of smaller, but nevertheless important things.

- Sending an receiving messages is more reliable

> - Desktop's message got several long awaited fixes

Reviewer: Desktop had a message?

Author: there is a word missing :) it's desktop's message list

Author: i will fix that.

- Windows and Linux now support more emoji 🥳

> - camera handling updated on iOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Camera handling updated on iOS
```

> - enlarge profile image on iOS ↕️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enlarge profile image on iOS ↕️
```
Embiggen

- iOS profile view got an update

> - show a warning when the password was changed on the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Show warning when password changed on the server
```

> - improve error handling when there is no network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved offline error handling
```

Moreover, we're happy to
introduce two more major, frequently requested features in Delta Chat:

> _Disappearing messages_ and _Video chats_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Disappearing messages_ and _Video-chats_.
```

> ### Video chats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Video-chats
```

> _"How can e-mail and video chats go together?"_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_"How can e-mail and video-chat go together?"_
```

_"And what happens if the called person doesn't even use Delta Chat?"_  

> (remember, we do not force people to use our app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Remember, we do not force use of our app on anyone.)
```

_"Also, how this can fit with our decentralized approach?"_

We were thinking a lot about these questions in the past,
together with different user groups and testers,

> and driven by various ux-researches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and driven by various UX-research.
```

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg" width="320" style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="" />

> So - it is **up to the user to decide which video chat provider to use.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So—it is **up to the user to decide which video chat provider to use.**
```

- They can enter it in the **settings**
- The video provider may come from the **provider-info** with other server-data 

> (which makes a lot of sense, however this is currently not supported by many email-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(which makes a lot of sense, however this is currently not supported by many email providers).
```
?

> - Finally, the user can also scan a video chat provider **from a qr-code** - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Finally, the user can also scan a video chat provider **from a QR-code** - 
```

> this way, video chat providers can be shared easily and quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this way, video-chat providers can be shared easily and quickly.
```

Delta Chat is not very picky about the chosen provider:

> The user can use every instance that contains the roomname in the url, which includes famous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can use every instance that contains the room-name in the URL, which includes famous
```

> services as jitsi, talky.io, appear.in and many more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services as Jitsi, talky.io, appear.in and many more.
```

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-07-videochat-invite2.png" width="220" style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="" />

> We believe in widely decentralizing the video chat services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe in widely decentralizing the video-chat services
```

is a good idea for overall privacy.

> Enabling the user to use any existing instance or hosting their own helps a lot for this approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Letting the user pick any existing instance or hosting their own helps a lot with this approach.
```

> However, once set, **starting a video chat is simple** -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, once set, **starting a video-chat is simple** -
```

> just tap "Video chat" in any one-to-one chat and wait for the recipient to join.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just tap "Video-chat" in any one-to-one chat and wait for the recipient to join.
```

(there is no need for the recipient to set a video chat provider on its own -
and also, the recipient is still free to join the chat from a
non-delta-client, if they really want to :)

> Finally, there is also the project [basicwebrtc](https://github.com/cracker0dks/basicwebrtc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, there is also the project [basicWebRTC](https://github.com/cracker0dks/basicwebrtc)
```

> that introduces a slim, fast webrtc-experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that introduces a slim, fast WebRTC-experience.
```

> If a _basicwebrtc_ is detected as a videochat instance,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If _basicWebRTC_ is detected as a video-chat instance,
```

on desktop, the call is handled directly in-app.

> All in all, video chats are already pretty usable,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All in all, video-chats are already pretty usable,
```

> however, we expect things being fine-tuned in the next releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
however, expect fine-tuning in the next few releases.
```

> _Video chats can be started from Android 1.12 and Desktop 1.10.4 and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Video-chats can be started from Android 1.12 and Desktop 1.10.4 and
```

can be joined from all existing clients_

## Disappearing messages

Another new feature in all recent Delta Chat versions on all platforms are the so called
_Disappearing messages_.

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-07-disappearing-options.png" width="250" style="float:left; clear:both; margin-right:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="" />

> Once the feature is enabled in the settings,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the feature is turned on in the settings,
```

> any user can decide to see all subsequent messages disappearing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any user can decide to see all messages subsequently disappearing.
```
?

Author: _"all subsequent messages" will disappear_ when the function is enabled.

however, at least is would read the suggestion as: _"all messages" disappear subsequently._  - which is not the same.

After a chosen timeout,
the **messages will disappear** on all the users devices,
on the users server -
and moreover, also on devices and servers of 
the other members if they are using Delta Chat and did not make a copy or screenshot.

**It is all about trust** -
you cannot guarantee deletion in any way, 
not for Delta Chat nor for any other messengers -

> eg. users may use a camera

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. users may use a camera
```

> or just write it down on piece of paper using this retro technology called pen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or just write it down on piece of paper using pen technology.
```

However, together with the burner accounts and the 
deletion of old messages, Delta Chat has a pretty good
set of features to get rid of things :)

Also here, as needed, we will streamline things in the next versions
and will offer the disappearing messages options by default then.

## Try out the new releases!

If you have not got the newest Delta Chat yet,
see [get.delta.chat](https://get.delta.chat) for an overview.
You'll also find **detailed changelogs** there.

> As usual, the different stores take different lengths of times for updates — thanks for your patience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As usual, the different stores will see the new version at different times—thanks for your patience.
```

> Also, thanks to all the ux-research attendees, testers, translators and developers to make this release happen :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, thanks to all the UX-research attendees, testers, translators and developers to make this release happen :)
```

---
title: Disappearing messages and Video chats
author: bjoern
image: ../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg
---

> We're happy that we can introduce **two more major, frequently requested features** in Delta Chat:

Reviewer 2: `We're happy to introduce ...`

_Disappearing messages_ and _Video chats_.

### Video chats

_"How can e-mail and video chats go together?"_

> _"And what if the called person does not even use Delta Chat?"_  

Reviewer 2: `And what happens if the called person doesn't even use Delta Chat?`

(remember, we do not force people to use our app)

_"Also, how this can fit with our decentralized approach?"_

We were thinking a lot about these questions in the past,

> together with different user groups and tester,

Reviewer 2: `testers`

and driven by various ux-researches.

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg" width="320" style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="" />
So - it is **up to the user to decide which video chat provider to use.**

- They can enter it in the **settings**

> - The video provider may come from the **provider-info** with the other server-data 

Reviewer 2: `with other server-data`

> (which makes a lot of sense, however, currently this is not supported by many email-provider).

Reviewer 2: `which makes a lot of sense, however this is currently not supported by many email-providers`

- Finally, the user can also scan a video chat provider **from a qr-code** - 
this way, video chat providers can be shared easily and quickly.

> Delta Chat is **not very picky** about the provider choosen -

Reviewer 2: `Delta Chat is  not very picky about the chosen provider`

the user can use every instance that reads the roomname from the url, 

> which is basically any open service, jitsy, talky, appear.in and many more,

Reviewer 2: The user can use every instance that contains the roomname in the url, which includes famous services as jitsi, talky.io, appear.in and many more.

may they are open or not.

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-07-videochat-invite2.png" width="220" style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:.2em;" alt="" />
We believe in widely decentralizing the video chat services
is a good idea for overall privacy.

> Giving the user the option to just use existing instances helps a lot on this approach.

Reviewer 2: `Enabling the user to use any existing instance or hosting their own helps a lot for this approach.`

However, once set, **starting a video chat is simple** -
just tap "Video chat" in any one-to-one chat and wait for the recipient to join.
(there is no need for the recipient to set a video chat provider on its own -

> and also, the recipeint is still free to join the chat from a 

Reviewer 2: `recipient`

non-delta-client, if they really want to :)

_Video chats can be started from Android 1.12 and Desktop 1.10 and
can be joined from all existing clients_

## Disappearing messages

> Another major feature are of all current Delta Chat versions are the so called 

Reviewer 2: `Another major feature in all recent Delta Chat versions on all platforms are the so called`

_Disappearing messages_.

Once enabled in the settings,
with that, one user of a chat can decide that he likes to see all subsequent

> messages disappearing.

Reviewer 2: Once the feature is enabled in the settings, any user can decide to see all subsequent messages disappearing.

After a chosen timeout,
the messages will disappear on all the users devices, 
on the users server -
and moreover, also on devices and servers of 

> the other memvers if they are using Delta Chat and did not make a copy somehow.

Reviewer 2: `members` `copy/screenshot`

It is all about trust -
you cannot guarantee deletion in any way, 
not for Delta Chat nor for any other messengers -

> eg. users may use use a camera ...

Reviewer 2: users may take a screenshot of the message or just write it down on piece of paper using this retro technology called pen.
